


1. | PLACES: London, Barbados 


5 The neighborhood park became a desolate spread of mud and water, lit up at night by rain-streaked street lamps. 

8 The photographs reminded me of paintings of Tahiti that William Hodges had brought back from his journey with Captain Cook, showing a tropical lagoon in soft evening light, where smiling local girls cavorted carefree (and barefoot) through luxuriant foliage

9 If our lives are dominated by a search for happiness, then perhaps few activities reveal as much about the dynamics of this quest - in all its ardor and paradoxes - than our travels. 

10 It was dark and smoky inside, with a line of beer pulls along the counter spread with hams as brown as violins and lobsters the color of red lead. 

11 So des Essientes paid the bill, left the tavern and took the first train back to his villa, along with his trunks, his packages, his portmanteaux, his rugs, his umbrellas and his sticks - and never left home again. 

11 After two months of anticipation, on a cloudless February midafternoon, I touched down, along with my traveling companion, at Barbados’s Grantley Adams Airport. 

13 two flies dancing above an overflowing ashtray. 

13 a stray dog in a stretch of waste ground beyond the airport. 

13 a white taxi with a dashboard covered in fake leopard skin.

14 We sit in a train. Lunch digests awkwardly within us.

14 We look out the window at a field. 

14 A drum of anxieties revolves in our consciousness. 

14 At last the train starts to move. 

15 He had imagined the place to resemble the paintings of Teniers and Jan Steen, Rembrandt and Ostade; he had anticipated patriarchal simplicity and riotous joviality, quiet small brick courtyards and palefaced maids pouring milk. 

15 And so he had journeyed to Haarlem and Amsterdam and was greatly disappointed. 

18 In the dawn light, the sky was a pale grey-blue, and after the rustlings of night before, all the creatures and even the wind seemed in deep sleep. It was as quiet as a library. Beyond the hotel room stretched a wide beach whose fringe of coconut trees soon gave way to an unhindered sandy slope towards the sea. 

18 the sand was powdery and the color of sun-ripened wheat.

19 a pressure across both temples and a rising need to visit the bathroom. 

23 We rented a Mini Moke and headed north to an area of rugged hill called Scotland, to which Oliver Cromwell had exiled English Catholics in the seventeenth century. 

23 At Barbados northernmost tip, we visited Animal Flower Cave, a series of caverns hollowed out of the rock face by the pounding of the waves. 

23 Giant sea anemones grew along the pitted walls there, looking like yellow and green flowers when they opened their tendrils. 

23 At midday we headed south towards the parish of Saint John and there, on a tree-covered hill, found a restaurant in one wing of an old colonial mansion. 

24 We paid and drove back to the hotel, the sound of the engine disguising the intensity of our sulks. 


2. | PLACES: Service Station, Airport, Plane, Train, Highway

29 Overlooking the motorway between London and Manchester, in a flat, featureless expanse of country, stands a single-storer glass-and-redbrick service station. In its forecourt hangs a giant laminated flag that advertises to motorists and to sheep in an adjacent field a photograph of a fried egg, two sausages and a peninsula of baked beans. 

29 I arrived at the service station towards evening.

29 I had been on the road for two hours, alone with clouds forming on the horizon, with the lights of commuter towns beyond grass banks, with motorway bridges and the silhouettes of overtaking cars and coaches. 

30 a uniform ribbon of red and white diamonds extending into infinity in two directions. 

30 There was poetry in this forsaken service station perched on the ridge of the motorway, far from all habitation.

31 Three months into the sea crossing, the ship had run into a storm and had stopped in Mauritius for repairs. 

31 It was the lush, palm-fringed island that Baudelaire had dreamt of. 

32 Lisbon. It was a city of water, marble and light, conducive to thought and calm. 

33 When feeling sad at home, I have often boarded a train or airport bus and gone to Heathrow where, from an observation gallery in Terminal 2 or from the top floor of the Renaissance Hotel along the north runway, I have drawn comfort from the sight of the ceaseless landings and takeoffs of aircraft.

34 It followed the Thames over London, turned north near Hammersmith (where the flaps began to unfold), pivoted over Uxbridge and straightened course over the Slough. 

34 In the light rain, clouds of water form a veil behind the plane on its matronly progress towards the airfield. 
Beneath it are the suburbs of Slough. It is three in the afternoon.

36 The plane a symbol of worldliness, carrying within itself a trace of all the lands it has crossed, its eternal mobility offering an imaginative counterweight to feelings of stagnation and confinement. 

36 All across the airfield, planes are on the move, their fins a confusion of colors against the grey horizon, like sails at a regatta. 

38 Few seconds in life are more releasing than those in which a plane ascends to the sky. 

39 In the cabin, no one stands up to announce with requisite emphasis that if we look out the window, we will see that <em> we are flying over a cloud, </em>a matter that would have detained Leonardo and Poussin, Claude and Constable. 

46 The clouds usher in tranquility. 

46 I felt lonely, but for once it was a gentle, even pleasant kind of loneliness.  

47 In 1925, Hopper bought his first car, a secondhand Dodge, and drove from his home in New York to New Mexico. 

51 As the car slips along a winding road through the woods at dusk, its powerful headlamps momentarily light up whole sections of meadow and tree trunks. 

52 Suddenly, in a clearing ahead, a floodlit expanse appears: a petrol station, the last before the road heads off into the longest, densest stretch of forest, and night completes its hold over the land. 

56 On a journey across flat country, I think with a rare lack of inhibition about the death of my father, about an essay I am writing on Stendhal and about a mistrust that has arisen between two friends. 

3. PLACES | Amsterdam, Egypt 

67 On disembarking at Amsterdam’s Schipol Airport, I am struck, only a few steps inside the terminal, by the appearance of a sign hanging from the ceiling, which announces the way to the arrivals hall, the exit and the transfer desks. Despite its simplicity, even its mundanity, the sign delights me, a delight for which the adjective exotic, though unusual, seems apt. 

70 I am bored, I am bored, I am bored.

72 Ahead a red sky and brown sands, on the burning horizon the undulating landscape stretching out into infinity.

74 Soon the shore became distinguishable; the first thing we saw on land was a pair of camels led by their driver. 
I gulped down a whole bellyful of colors, like a donkey filling himself up with hay.

74 Modern-day Amsterdam provided different but analogous examples: buildings with elongated pale-pink bricks stuck together with curiously white mortar (far more regular than English or North American brickwork, and exposed to view, unlike the bricks on French or German buildings) 

74 bicycles parked outside every house.

74 There was an honesty in its design. 

80 I, my dear sir, who am speaking to you now, was at X this morning. I took the train to Y, transacted my business there, and by Z o’clock was back here. 

81 It is like being hurled while still asleep into the midst of a Beethoven symphony, with the brasses at their most earsplitting, the basses rumbling, the flutes sighing away; each detail reaches out to grip you; it pinches you; and the more you concentrate on it, the less you grasp the whole. 

81 it is such a bewildering chaos of colors that your poor imagination is dazzled as though by continuous fireworks as you go about staring at minarets white with storks, at the patterns of sycamore branches against the walls, with camel bells ringing in your ears and great herds of black goats bleating in the streets amidst the horses and the donkeys and the peddlers. 

83 On the plastered walls of some apartments are rude paintings of the temple of Mecca, or the tomb of the Prophet, or flowers or other objects… sometimes the walls are beautifully ornamented with Arabic inscriptions of maxims in an embellished style. 

94 He would have liked to travel stretched out on a sofa and not stirring, watching landscapes, ruins and cities pass before him like the screen of a panorama mechanically unwinding. 

94 you take care of the itineraries, and i’ll fit in – it’s the same to me whether I go right or left. 

97 I think I must have been transplanted by the winds to this land of mud.











